# CS-Studio Jenkins Jobs

The templates and definitions in this repository are used to create
the Jenkins jobs for the CS-Studio Continuous Integration system instance
hosted on [CloudBees](https://openepics.ci.cloudbees.com).

## Jenkins Job Builder

The tool used to create the XML job definitions is called
[Jenkins Job Builder](http://docs.openstack.org/infra/jenkins-job-builder/).

It takes simple descriptions of Jenkins jobs in YAML or JSON format
and uses them to create the XML files that configure Jenkins.

These XML job descriptions are uploaded to Jenkins using its web service API
(via https).

## How-To

### Prepare

1. Install Jenkins Job Builder (JJB). It has been found that cloning and
installing the development version from its repo works flawlessly, while
older versions (from system packages) are too buggy to be useful.

2. Clone this repository.

3. Add your CloudBees credentials to the JJB configuration file `cloudbees.ini`.
It should be possible to use an API token, but that seems not to be working
on the CloudBees Jenkins instance.

### Test

To check the generated XML, use JJB's `test` command:
```
$ jenkins-jobs --conf ./cloudbees.ini test templates:cloudbees
```
You can add job names as additional arguments to limit the XML generation
to the specified jobs. Wildcards in job names are supported.

### Update

To update the jobs on CloudBees, use JJB's `update` command:
```
$ jenkins-jobs --conf ./cloudbees.ini update templates:cloudbees
```
Job names as additional arguments will update only the specified jobs.
Wildcards in job names are supported.

### Be Careful

JJB offers commands to delete jobs (even all jobs) on Jenkins.

**Do not use these commands.**

They will affect *all* jobs on the Jenkins instance, including those not
generated by JJB and those of other projects.
